README.md, before:


# More On Missing Data - Lab

## Introduction

In this lab, you'll continue to practice techniques for dealing with missing data. Moreover, you'll observe the impact on distributions of your data produced by various techniques for dealing with missing data.

## Objectives

You will be able to:

* Use various techniques for dealing with missing data
* Observe the impact of imputing missing values on summary statistics

## Load the Data

To start, load in the dataset `titanic.csv` using pandas.


```python
#Your code here
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv('titanic.csv')
df.head()
```




<div>
<style scoped>
    .dataframe tbody tr th:only-of-type {
        vertical-align: middle;
    }

    .dataframe tbody tr th {
        vertical-align: top;
    }

    .dataframe thead th {
        text-align: right;
    }
</style>
<table border="1" class="dataframe">
  <thead>
    <tr style="text-align: right;">
      <th></th>
      <th>Unnamed: 0</th>
      <th>PassengerId</th>
      <th>Survived</th>
      <th>Pclass</th>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Sex</th>
      <th>Age</th>
      <th>SibSp</th>
      <th>Parch</th>
      <th>Ticket</th>
      <th>Fare</th>
      <th>Cabin</th>
      <th>Embarked</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>0</th>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Braund, Mr. Owen Harris</td>
      <td>male</td>
      <td>22.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>A/5 21171</td>
      <td>7.2500</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>1</th>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Cumings, Mrs. John Bradley (Florence Briggs Th...</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>38.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>PC 17599</td>
      <td>71.2833</td>
      <td>C85</td>
      <td>C</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>2</th>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Heikkinen, Miss. Laina</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>26.0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>STON/O2. 3101282</td>
      <td>7.9250</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>3</th>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Futrelle, Mrs. Jacques Heath (Lily May Peel)</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>35.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>113803</td>
      <td>53.1000</td>
      <td>C123</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>4</th>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Allen, Mr. William Henry</td>
      <td>male</td>
      <td>35.0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>373450</td>
      <td>8.0500</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>



## Use the `.info()` Method to Quickly Preview Which Features Have Missing Data


```python
#Your code here
df.info()
```

    <class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
    RangeIndex: 891 entries, 0 to 890
    Data columns (total 13 columns):
    Unnamed: 0     891 non-null int64
    PassengerId    891 non-null int64
    Survived       891 non-null int64
    Pclass         891 non-null object
    Name           891 non-null object
    Sex            891 non-null object
    Age            714 non-null float64
    SibSp          891 non-null int64
    Parch          891 non-null int64
    Ticket         891 non-null object
    Fare           891 non-null float64
    Cabin          204 non-null object
    Embarked       889 non-null object
    dtypes: float64(2), int64(5), object(6)
    memory usage: 90.6+ KB


## Observe Previous Measures Of Centrality

Let's look at the age feature. Calculate the mean, median and standard deviation of this feature. Then plot a histogram of the distribution.


```python
#Your code here
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline

print(df.Age.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
df.Age.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    28.000000
    std       14.526497
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120841a58>




![png](index_files/index_6_2.png)


## Impute Missing Values using the Mean 

Fill the missing age values using the average age. (Don't overwrite the original data, as we will be comparing to other methods for dealing with the missing values.) Then recalculate the mean, median, and std and replot the histogram.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_mean = df.Age.fillna(value=df.Age.mean())
print(age_na_mean.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_mean.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    29.699118
    std       13.002015
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x1208b2550>




![png](index_files/index_8_2.png)


### Commentary

Note that the standard deviation dropped, the median was slightly raised and the distribution has a larger mass near the center.

## Impute Missing Values using the Median 

Fill the missing age values, this time using the media age. (Again, don't overwrite the original data, as we will be comparing to other methods for dealing with the missing values.) Then recalculate the mean, median, and std and replot the histogram.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_median = df.Age.fillna(value=df.Age.median())
print(age_na_median.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_median.hist()
```

    mean      29.361582
    median    28.000000
    std       13.019697
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120990400>




![png](index_files/index_11_2.png)


### Commentary

Imputing the median has similar effectives to imputing the mean. The variance is reduced, while the mean is slightly lowered. You can once again see that there is a larger mass of data near the center of the distribution.

## Dropping Rows

Finally, lets observe the impact on the distribution if we were to simply drop the age column all together. Afterwards, calculate the mean, median and standard deviation along with a histogram, as before.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_dropped = df[~df.Age.isnull()]['Age']
print(age_na_dropped.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_dropped.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    28.000000
    std       14.526497
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120a67668>




![png](index_files/index_14_2.png)


### Commentary

Dropping null values leaves the distribution and associated measures of centrality unchanged, but at the cost of throwing away data.

## Summary

In this lab, you briefly practiced some common techniques for dealing with missing data. Moreover, you observed the impact that these methods had on the distribution of the feature itself. When you begin to tune models on your data, these considerations will be an essential process of developing robust and accurate models.

Commit message:

changed dropping column to dropping rows

README.md, after:


# More On Missing Data - Lab

## Introduction

In this lab, you'll continue to practice techniques for dealing with missing data. Moreover, you'll observe the impact on distributions of your data produced by various techniques for dealing with missing data.

## Objectives

You will be able to:

* Use various techniques for dealing with missing data
* Observe the impact of imputing missing values on summary statistics

## Load the Data

To start, load in the dataset `titanic.csv` using pandas.


```python
#Your code here
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv('titanic.csv')
df.head()
```




<div>
<style scoped>
    .dataframe tbody tr th:only-of-type {
        vertical-align: middle;
    }

    .dataframe tbody tr th {
        vertical-align: top;
    }

    .dataframe thead th {
        text-align: right;
    }
</style>
<table border="1" class="dataframe">
  <thead>
    <tr style="text-align: right;">
      <th></th>
      <th>Unnamed: 0</th>
      <th>PassengerId</th>
      <th>Survived</th>
      <th>Pclass</th>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Sex</th>
      <th>Age</th>
      <th>SibSp</th>
      <th>Parch</th>
      <th>Ticket</th>
      <th>Fare</th>
      <th>Cabin</th>
      <th>Embarked</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>0</th>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Braund, Mr. Owen Harris</td>
      <td>male</td>
      <td>22.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>A/5 21171</td>
      <td>7.2500</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>1</th>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Cumings, Mrs. John Bradley (Florence Briggs Th...</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>38.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>PC 17599</td>
      <td>71.2833</td>
      <td>C85</td>
      <td>C</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>2</th>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Heikkinen, Miss. Laina</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>26.0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>STON/O2. 3101282</td>
      <td>7.9250</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>3</th>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Futrelle, Mrs. Jacques Heath (Lily May Peel)</td>
      <td>female</td>
      <td>35.0</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>113803</td>
      <td>53.1000</td>
      <td>C123</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>4</th>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Allen, Mr. William Henry</td>
      <td>male</td>
      <td>35.0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>373450</td>
      <td>8.0500</td>
      <td>NaN</td>
      <td>S</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>



## Use the `.info()` Method to Quickly Preview Which Features Have Missing Data


```python
#Your code here
df.info()
```

    <class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
    RangeIndex: 891 entries, 0 to 890
    Data columns (total 13 columns):
    Unnamed: 0     891 non-null int64
    PassengerId    891 non-null int64
    Survived       891 non-null int64
    Pclass         891 non-null object
    Name           891 non-null object
    Sex            891 non-null object
    Age            714 non-null float64
    SibSp          891 non-null int64
    Parch          891 non-null int64
    Ticket         891 non-null object
    Fare           891 non-null float64
    Cabin          204 non-null object
    Embarked       889 non-null object
    dtypes: float64(2), int64(5), object(6)
    memory usage: 90.6+ KB


## Observe Previous Measures Of Centrality

Let's look at the age feature. Calculate the mean, median and standard deviation of this feature. Then plot a histogram of the distribution.


```python
#Your code here
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline

print(df.Age.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
df.Age.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    28.000000
    std       14.526497
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120841a58>




![png](index_files/index_6_2.png)


## Impute Missing Values using the Mean 

Fill the missing age values using the average age. (Don't overwrite the original data, as we will be comparing to other methods for dealing with the missing values.) Then recalculate the mean, median, and std and replot the histogram.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_mean = df.Age.fillna(value=df.Age.mean())
print(age_na_mean.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_mean.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    29.699118
    std       13.002015
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x1208b2550>




![png](index_files/index_8_2.png)


### Commentary

Note that the standard deviation dropped, the median was slightly raised and the distribution has a larger mass near the center.

## Impute Missing Values using the Median 

Fill the missing age values, this time using the media age. (Again, don't overwrite the original data, as we will be comparing to other methods for dealing with the missing values.) Then recalculate the mean, median, and std and replot the histogram.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_median = df.Age.fillna(value=df.Age.median())
print(age_na_median.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_median.hist()
```

    mean      29.361582
    median    28.000000
    std       13.019697
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120990400>




![png](index_files/index_11_2.png)


### Commentary

Imputing the median has similar effectiveness to imputing the mean. The variance is reduced, while the mean is slightly lowered. You can once again see that there is a larger mass of data near the center of the distribution.

## Dropping Rows

Finally, lets observe the impact on the distribution if we were to simply drop all of the rows that are missing an age value. Afterwards, calculate the mean, median and standard deviation of the ages along with a histogram, as before.


```python
#Your code here
age_na_dropped = df[~df.Age.isnull()]['Age']
print(age_na_dropped.apply(['mean', 'median', 'std']))
age_na_dropped.hist()
```

    mean      29.699118
    median    28.000000
    std       14.526497
    Name: Age, dtype: float64





    <matplotlib.axes._subplots.AxesSubplot at 0x120a67668>




![png](index_files/index_14_2.png)


### Commentary

Dropping null values leaves the distribution and associated measures of centrality unchanged, but at the cost of throwing away data.

## Summary

In this lab, you briefly practiced some common techniques for dealing with missing data. Moreover, you observed the impact that these methods had on the distribution of the feature itself. When you begin to tune models on your data, these considerations will be an essential process of developing robust and accurate models.
